# v3.0.0 - Changelog & Migration Guide

Endpoints 3.0.0 introduces new native `async` APIs as well as a lot of other new features, therefore it was necessary to break some of our interfaces.

## Changelog
### Developer facing
- Removed wrapping withCheckedContinuation functions and rewrote APIs in a native async way
  - Dropped `AsyncXXXX` prefixed components because async is the only supported way
  - Adopted tests based on that change
- Validation
  - Request and Response validation is now triggered in the Session `dataTask` function.
- Added [EndpointsTestbed](../EndpointsTestbed) as an example project
  - this includes a MVVM as well as an [AsyncReactor](https://github.com/diamirio/AsyncReactor) example
- Updated README.md based on the new APIs

  
### Internal
- Github Workflow
  - Added SwiftFormat workflow
  - Updated Checkout action to v4
- Updated Ruby gems
- Added new copyright statement in code
- Updated .gitignore

## Migration Guide
### Session
The `start` function was removed please use `dataTask(for: MyCall())` now. This functions also calls `parse()` `call.validate()` and `client.validate`. The funciton signatures changed because of async usage, please adopt them according to the new parameters and response types. 

### Client
Client now directly conforms to `ResponseValidator`. The `encode(...)`, `parse(...)` and `validate(...)` functions have now a new function signature as well. If a custom manipulation is requires, those can be overwritten. An example can be found [here](../EndpointsTestbed/EndpointsTestbed/Networking/ManipulatedHTTPBinClient.swift).

### Call
The `Call` protocol remains the same as before so all defined calls can be used.

### DataParser
The `DataParser` protocols' `parse` function signatures was changed as well. Adopt accordingly.

### Testing 
TODO


